ZMP                           Discworld Player Help                          ZMP


Name
     Zenith Mud Protocol

Description
     ZMP is a mud client protocol which, unlike for instance MXP, does not
     have pre-defined behaviour.  MUDs can use it to send extra information
     to the player.  Players can write client plugins to use this
     information.

     This help file does not explain the way ZMP works; information about
     this is available on the internet, or in the documentation of various
     mud clients.  It does explain the features supported by Discworld.

So What Should I Send?
     After ZMP is successfully negotiated, your client should send:
        zmp.ident <client> <version>

     That's the only thing that you need to send (and if you don't,
     Discworld is quite forgiving).  In return, you will receive an
     identification from Discworld.  Other communication is initiated by
     the server.

     In particular, Discworld may send zmp.check <command> commands.  On
     receiving such a query, your client should respond with one of the
     following:
        * zmp.support <command>
        * zmp.no-support <command>

     You may also send zmp.support commands unasked, to avoid the small
     delay the first time the mud tries to send you some zmp information.

And What Do I Get?
     Discworld sends six things that you may find interesting, provided
     your client claims to support them:
        * char.login
        * char.info
        * char.vitals
        * room.info
        * room.map
        * room.writtenmap

     The first two of these are sent when you log in.  Here, char.login
     supplies the name of your character, and char.info supplies some
     additional static information such as guild and character role.

     The third (char.vitals) is sent whenever you send a command (much like
     the prompt) and supplies your hitpoints, guildpoints, experience
     points and burden.

     The other three are sent whenever you look, glance or enter a room.
     Here, room.info sends some information on the current room: the room
     name, room identifier and its status (e.g. inside, outside,
     underwater).  The two map commands send a small minimap to your
     client, which may be empty if vision is bad (for instance in the case
     of snow).  Unless you have maps set to plain (see options output map),
     the "room.map" command will include colour codes.

On Triggers and Timers
     Although it should never be necessary, you may be inclined to use a
     trigger to send for instance the ZMP ident command.  This is allowed,
     provided only ZMP communication is sent.

     Triggers and timers which send anything that could make your character
     unidle are not allowed.  This includes blank lines!  So you may not,
     for instance, automatically send a blank line every 10 seconds to keep
     your Char.Vitals updated.  If you set up ZMP triggers, make sure they
     do not accidentally do this.

Notes
     The definition on the ZMP protocol is mirrored on
     http://discworld.starturtle.net/external/protocols/zmp.html

See Also
     mxp, gmcp, automation
